---
layout: default
title: ExHET 2025 
description: The 4th International Workshop on Extreme Heterogeneity Solutions<br />
             to be held in conjunction with PPoPP 2025<br/>
             March 2nd, 2025<br />
             Las Vegas, NV, USA<br />
permalink: /events/exhet2025/
tags: events
header-includes:
    - \usepackage{wallpaper}
---


<html><head><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8">
<title>PPoPP ExHET 2025</title>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="./2025-03-02-ExHET-files/exhet2024.css" type="text/css">
</head>
<body>



<div class="header">
      <h1>ExHET 2025 </h1>
      <h2><font size="6">
The 4th International Workshop on Extreme Heterogeneity Solutions</font></h2>
      <p>to be held in conjunction with<br>
	      <a href="https://ppopp25.sigplan.org/">PPoPP 2025</a>
      </p><p>

      </p><p>
       02 March, 2025<br> Las Vegas, NV, USA</p>
</div>

<div class="body">


<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>
While computing technologies have remained relatively stable for nearly two decades, new architectural features, such as specialized hardware, 
heterogeneous cores, deep memory hierarchies, and near-memory processing, have emerged as possible solutions to address the concerns of energy efficiency, 
manufacturability, and cost. However, we expect this ‘golden age’ of architectural change to lead to extreme heterogeneity and will have a major impact on 
software systems and applications. In this upcoming exascale and extreme heterogeneity era, it will be critical to explore new software approaches that 
will enable us to effectively exploit this diverse hardware to advance science, the next-generation systems with heterogeneous elements will need to 
accommodate complex workflows. This is mainly due to the many forms of heterogeneous accelerators (no longer just GPU accelerators) in this heterogeneous 
era, and the need to map different parts of an application onto elements most appropriate for that application component. In addition, this year we are 
acknowledging a now clear trend by explicitly encouraging contributions involving the use of trained AI methods -- for example, the use of GPT for code 
generation.
</p>


<h2>Objectives, scope and topics of the workshop</h2>
<p>This workshop aims to provide a forum to discuss new and emerging solutions to address these important challenges from the 
upcoming extreme heterogeneity era. Papers are being sought on many aspects of heterogeneous computing including 
(but not limited to):</p>
            <ul>
		<li>Heterogeneous Programming Environments and Runtime Systems</li>
                <ul>
                    <li>Programming models and systems</li> 
		    <li>Parallel resource management on heterogeneous systems</li> 
                    <li>Automated parallelization and compiler techniques (Autotuning)</li>
		    <li>Programming solutions using AI code generation</li>
                </ul>  
		<li>Heterogeneous Solutions for HPC and Scientific Applications</li>
                <ul>
                    <li>Parallel and distributed algorithms</li> 
		    <li>Parallel libraries and frameworks</li> 
                    <li>Parallel processing on heterogeneous systems</li>
                </ul>
	        <li>Heterogeneous (included Non-von Neuman) Architectures</li>
                <ul>
                    <li>Power/energy management</li> 
		    <li>Heterogeneous architectures for emerging application domains</li> 
                    <li>Architecture designs including Non-von Neuman architectures, memory and interconnection
</li>
                </ul>
                <li>Reliability/Benchmarking/Measurements</li>
                <ul>
                    <li>Debugging, performance tools and techniques</li> 
		    <li>Fault tolerance and resilience</li> 
                    <li>Application/hardware benchmarks</li>
                </ul>
            </ul>


<h2>Program</h2>
<p> 
1,00PM - 1,10PM Opening 
</p>
<p> 
1,10PM - 1,50PM Keynote: Neuromorphic Computing in a Future Heterogeneous Computing Landscape, Catherine (Katie) Dorothy Schuman 
</p>
<p> 
1,50PM - 2,20PM Paper 1: A Unified Portable and Programmable Framework for Task-Based Execution and Dynamic Resource Management on Heterogeneous Systems
</p>
<p> 
2,20PM - 2,50PM Paper 2: From OpenACC to OpenMP5 GPU Offloading: Performance Evaluation on NAS Parallel Benchmarks
</p>
<p> 
2,50PM - 3,10PM Break
</p>
<p> 
3,10PM - 3,50PM Invited Speaker: Extreme Heterogeneity Demands Extreme Observability, Allen D. Malony
</p>
<p> 
3,50PM - 4,10PM Short Paper 1: Extending SEER for Extreme Heterogeneity
</p>
<p> 
4,10PM - 4,50PM Panel (Invited Speakers and Authors)
</p>
<p> 
4,50PM - 4,55PM Awards
</p>
<p> 
4,55PM - 5,00PM Wrap-up
</p>

<h2>Important Dates</h2>
<p>
<strong>Paper submission deadline :</strong> January 10th<br>
<strong>Notification of acceptance :</strong> January 20th<br>
<strong>Camera-ready papers due :</strong> TBA<br>
<strong>Workshop day:</strong> March 02, 2024<br>
</p>


<h2>Steering Committee</h2>
<p>
<strong>Antonio J. Pena</strong>, Barcelona Supercomputing Center, Spain<br>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Hartwig Anzt</strong>, Technical University of Munich, Germany<br>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Hyesoon Kim</strong>, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA<br>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Ignacio Laguna</strong>, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA<br>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Jeffrey S. Vetter</strong>, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA<br>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Manuel Prieto</strong>, University Complutense of Madrid, Spain<br>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Miwako Tsuji</strong>, RIKEN, Japan<br>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Olivier Aumage</strong>, INRIA, France<br>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Sunita Chandrasekaran</strong>, University of Delaware, USA<br>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Toshiyuki Imamura</strong>, RIKEN, Japan<br>
</p>

<h2>Organizers (Contact us)</h2>

<p>
<strong>Pedro Valero-Lara (co-chair)</strong><br>
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA<br>
<i>valerolarap@ornl.gov</i>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Seyong Lee (co-chair)</strong><br>
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA<br>
<i>lees2@ornl.gov</i>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Gokcen Kestor (co-chair)</strong><br>
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, University of California Merced, USA<br>
<i>gokcen.kestor@pnnl.gov</i>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Monil Mohammad Alaul Haque (proceeding chair and program chair)</strong><br>
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA<br>
<i>monilm@ornl.gov</i>
</p>
<p>
<strong>Simon Garcia de Gonzalo (publicity and web chair)</strong><br>
Sandia National Laboratory, USA<br>
<i>simgarc@sandia.gov</i>
</p>

<h2>Programme Committee</h2>
<ul>
<li><strong>Ali Akoglu</strong>, Arizona State University, USA</li>
<li><strong>Rabab Alomairy</strong>, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA</li>
<li><strong>Johannes Doerfert</strong>, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA</li>
<li><strong>Het Mankad</strong>, Carnegie Mellon University, USA</li>
<li><strong>Marc Gonzalez-Tallada</strong>, Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, Spain</li>
<li><strong>Nikela Papadopoulou</strong>, University of Glasgow, UK</li>
<li><strong>Swaroop Pophale</strong>, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA</li>
<li><strong>William F. Godoy</strong>, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, USA</li>
<li><strong>Hiroyuki Takizawa</strong>, Tohoku University, Japan</li>
</ul>


<h2>Manuscript submission</h2>
<p>
We invite submissions of original, unpublished research and experiential papers. 
Full papers should be between <strong>6 to 8</strong> pages in length, formatted according to 
the standard ACM two-column conference template. Additionally, we are introducing 
a short paper track for submissions up to <strong>3</strong> pages. ACM templates for both Microsoft 
Word and LaTeX can be accessed <a href="https://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template">here</a>. 
All paper submissions will be managed electronically via <a href="https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=exhet25">EasyChair</a>.
</p>


<h2>Proceedings</h2>
<p>
All accepted papers will be published in the ExHET-PPoPP Workshops 2024 proceedings by the ACM Digital Library. 
</p> 

<h2>Best Paper Award</h2>
<p>
The Best Full and Short Paper Award will be selected on the basis of explicit recommendations of the reviewers and their scoring towards the paper’s originality and quality. 
</p> 

<h2>Special Issue Journal</h2>
<p>
Selected best papers of ExHET will be considered for publication in a special issue of the international journal  <a href="https://www.mdpi.com/journal/applsci/special_issues/3UWRR556BA">Applied Sciences (Heterogeneous Computing Solutions)</a> and <a href="https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/future-generation-computer-systems/about/call-for-special-issues">FGCS (High-performance Computing Heterogeneous Systems and Subsystems)</a>
</p> 

<h2><strong>Invited Speaker (Catherine Dorothy Schuman, University of Tennessee at Knoxville):</strong></h2> <strong>Neuromorphic Computing in a Future Heterogeneous Computing Landscape</strong>
<p>
Though neuromorphic computing systems have been demonstrated to have extremely low-power operation and are well-suited to edge deployment, there is also tremendous opportunity to leverage neuromorphic computers in future heterogeneous high performance computing environments.  In this talk, we will discuss potential use cases of neuromorphic systems in these future HPC environments, with a particular focus on applications in which neuromorphic may provide a key advantage.
</p>
<p>
Catherine (Katie) Schuman is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Tennessee (UT). She received her Ph.D. in Computer Science from UT in 2015, where she completed her dissertation on the use of evolutionary algorithms to train spiking neural networks for neuromorphic systems. Katie previously served as a research scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, where her research focused on algorithms and applications of neuromorphic systems. Katie co-leads the TENNLab Neuromorphic Computing Research Group at UT. She has over 70 publications as well as seven patents in the field of neuromorphic computing. She received the Department of Energy Early Career Award in 2019. Katie is a senior member of the Association of Computing Machinery and the IEEE.
</p>

<h2><strong>Invited Speaker (Allen D. Malony, University of Oregon):</strong></h2> <strong>Extreme Heterogeneity Demands Extreme Observability</strong>
<p>
The extreme heterogeneity era, coupled with strong interests in exascale and AI computing, will significantly increase the complexity of next-generation HPC systems, applications programming/optimization, workflow execution, power/energy management, and more.  Post-Moore computer architecture innovations are driving heterogeneity and hardware specialization, resulting in a diversity of processors, accelerators, memory, and interconnects.  While there is certainly opportunities to build more powerful HPC systems based on these technology advances, the operational complexity of the heterogeneous system as a whole could make
it challenging to achieve its full computational potential.  A proposition is presented in the talk that heterogeneity in future HPC systems will necessitate greater support for observability.  Indeed, a stronger argument will be made that observability should be an integral, comprehensive aspect of the systems design overall and that specific hardware and software dedicated to observability needs to be developed. The conclusion of this argument is that future HPC systems and the applications that run on them will not be able to deliver their full capabilities unless extreme observability is present.
</p>
<p>
Allen D. Malony is a Professor in the Department of Computer and Information Science (CIS) at the University of Oregon (UO) and the Director of the Oregon Advanced Computing Institute for Science and Society (OACISS).  Malony's research interests are in parallel computing, performance analysis, supercomputing, and computational science.  He has extensive experience in performance analysis of parallel systems and has developed performance evaluation tools for a variety of HPC machines.  In particular, Malony's research group develops the TAU Performance System (TM), a leading open source parallel performance tool suite in use by many academic, governmental, and industrial projects around the world.  He is CEO and Director of ParaTools, Inc., founded with Sameer Shende, who is the President and Director.  ParaTools specializes in performance engineering for high-performance computing (HPC).
</p>



<h2><strong>Panel:</strong></h2> <strong>Challenges and Solutions for the upcoming Extreme Heterogeneity Era</strong>
<p>
During the panel discussion, the panelists and those participants in the workshop will have the opportunity to discuss the fundamentals of 
extreme heterogeneity: challenges and solutions.
</p>
<strong>Panelists:</strong>
<p>
<strong>TBA</strong>
</p>

<p>
</p><h2>Registration</h2>
      <p> Information about registration at <a href="https://ppopp25.sigplan.org/">PPoPP 2025 website</a>.</p>
